fs
Interact with the computer's files and filesystem, allowing you to manipulate files, directories and paths. This includes:

Reading and writing files: Call open to obtain a file "handle", which can be used to read from or write to a file.
Path manipulation: combine, getName and getDir allow you to manipulate file paths, joining them together or extracting components.
Querying paths: For instance, checking if a file exists, or whether it's a directory. See getSize, exists, isDir, isReadOnly and attributes.
File and directory manipulation: For instance, moving or copying files. See makeDir, move, copy and delete.
🛈 NOTE
All functions in the API work on absolute paths, and do not take the current directory into account. You can use shell.resolve to convert a relative path into an absolute one.

Mounts
While a computer can only have one hard drive and filesystem, other filesystems may be "mounted" inside it. For instance, the drive peripheral mounts its disk's contents at "disk/", "disk1/", etc...

You can see which mount a path belongs to with the getDrive function. This returns "hdd" for the computer's main filesystem ("/"), "rom" for the rom ("rom/").

Most filesystems have a limited capacity, operations which would cause that capacity to be reached (such as writing an incredibly large file) will fail. You can see a mount's capacity with getCapacity and the remaining space with getFreeSpace.

isDriveRoot(path)	Returns true if a path is mounted to the parent filesystem.
complete(path, location [, include_files [, include_dirs]])	Provides completion for a file or directory name, suitable for use with _G.read.
list(path)	Returns a list of files in a directory.
combine(path, ...)	Combines several parts of a path into one full path, adding separators as needed.
getName(path)	Returns the file name portion of a path.
getDir(path)	Returns the parent directory portion of a path.
getSize(path)	Returns the size of the specified file.
exists(path)	Returns whether the specified path exists.
isDir(path)	Returns whether the specified path is a directory.
isReadOnly(path)	Returns whether a path is read-only.
makeDir(path)	Creates a directory, and any missing parents, at the specified path.
move(path, dest)	Moves a file or directory from one path to another.
copy(path, dest)	Copies a file or directory to a new path.
delete(path)	Deletes a file or directory.
open(path, mode)	Opens a file for reading or writing at a path.
getDrive(path)	Returns the name of the mount that the specified path is located on.
getFreeSpace(path)	Returns the amount of free space available on the drive the path is located on.
find(path)	Searches for files matching a string with wildcards.
getCapacity(path)	Returns the capacity of the drive the path is located on.
attributes(path)	Get attributes about a specific file or folder.
isDriveRoot(path)
Source
Returns true if a path is mounted to the parent filesystem.

The root filesystem "/" is considered a mount, along with disk folders and the rom folder. Other programs (such as network shares) can exstend this to make other mount types by correctly assigning their return value for getDrive.

Parameters
path string The path to check.
Returns
boolean If the path is mounted, rather than a normal file/folder.
Throws
If the path does not exist.

See also
getDrive
Changes
New in version 1.87.0
complete(path, location [, include_files [, include_dirs]])
Source
Provides completion for a file or directory name, suitable for use with _G.read.

When a directory is a possible candidate for completion, two entries are included - one with a trailing slash (indicating that entries within this directory exist) and one without it (meaning this entry is an immediate completion candidate). include_dirs can be set to false to only include those with a trailing slash.

Parameters
path string The path to complete.
location string The location where paths are resolved from.
include_files? boolean When false, only directories will be included in the returned list.
include_dirs? boolean When false, "raw" directories will not be included in the returned list.
Returns
{ string... } A list of possible completion candidates.
Changes
New in version 1.74
list(path)
Source
Returns a list of files in a directory.

Parameters
path string The path to list.
Returns
{ string... } A table with a list of files in the directory.
Throws
If the path doesn't exist.

Usage
List all files under /rom/

Run ᐅlocal files = fs.list("/rom/")
for i = 1, #files do
  print(files[i])
end
combine(path, ...)
Source
Combines several parts of a path into one full path, adding separators as needed.

Parameters
path string The first part of the path. For example, a parent directory path.
... string Additional parts of the path to combine.
Returns
string The new path, with separators added between parts as needed.
Throws
On argument errors.

Usage
Combine several file paths together

Run ᐅfs.combine("/rom/programs", "../apis", "parallel.lua")
-- => rom/apis/parallel.lua
Changes
Changed in version 1.95.0: Now supports multiple arguments.
getName(path)
Source
Returns the file name portion of a path.

Parameters
path string The path to get the name from.
Returns
string The final part of the path (the file name).
Usage
Get the file name of rom/startup.lua

Run ᐅfs.getName("rom/startup.lua")
-- => startup.lua
Changes
New in version 1.2
getDir(path)
Source
Returns the parent directory portion of a path.

Parameters
path string The path to get the directory from.
Returns
string The path with the final part removed (the parent directory).
Usage
Get the directory name of rom/startup.lua

Run ᐅfs.getDir("rom/startup.lua")
-- => rom
Changes
New in version 1.63
getSize(path)
Source
Returns the size of the specified file.

Parameters
path string The file to get the file size of.
Returns
number The size of the file, in bytes.
Throws
If the path doesn't exist.

Changes
New in version 1.3
exists(path)
Source
Returns whether the specified path exists.

Parameters
path string The path to check the existence of.
Returns
boolean Whether the path exists.
isDir(path)
Source
Returns whether the specified path is a directory.

Parameters
path string The path to check.
Returns
boolean Whether the path is a directory.
isReadOnly(path)
Source
Returns whether a path is read-only.

Parameters
path string The path to check.
Returns
boolean Whether the path cannot be written to.
makeDir(path)
Source
Creates a directory, and any missing parents, at the specified path.

Parameters
path string The path to the directory to create.
Throws
If the directory couldn't be created.

move(path, dest)
Source
Moves a file or directory from one path to another.

Any parent directories are created as needed.

Parameters
path string The current file or directory to move from.
dest string The destination path for the file or directory.
Throws
If the file or directory couldn't be moved.

copy(path, dest)
Source
Copies a file or directory to a new path.

Any parent directories are created as needed.

Parameters
path string The file or directory to copy.
dest string The path to the destination file or directory.
Throws
If the file or directory couldn't be copied.

delete(path)
Source
Deletes a file or directory.

If the path points to a directory, all of the enclosed files and subdirectories are also deleted.

Parameters
path string The path to the file or directory to delete.
Throws
If the file or directory couldn't be deleted.

open(path, mode)
Source
Opens a file for reading or writing at a path.

The mode string can be any of the following:

"r": Read mode
"w": Write mode
"a": Append mode
The mode may also have a "b" at the end, which opens the file in "binary mode". This allows you to read binary files, as well as seek within a file.

Parameters
path string The path to the file to open.
mode string The mode to open the file with.
Returns
table A file handle object for the file.
Or
nil If the file does not exist, or cannot be opened.
string | nil A message explaining why the file cannot be opened.
Throws
If an invalid mode was specified.

Usage
Read the contents of a file.

Run ᐅlocal file = fs.open("/rom/help/intro.txt", "r")
local contents = file.readAll()
file.close()

print(contents)
Open a file and read all lines into a table. io.lines offers an alternative way to do this.

Run ᐅlocal file = fs.open("/rom/motd.txt", "r")
local lines = {}
while true do
  local line = file.readLine()

  -- If line is nil then we've reached the end of the file and should stop
  if not line then break end

  lines[#lines + 1] = line
end

file.close()

print(lines[math.random(#lines)]) -- Pick a random line and print it.
Open a file and write some text to it. You can run edit out.txt to see the written text.

Run ᐅlocal file = fs.open("out.txt", "w")
file.write("Just testing some code")
file.close() -- Remember to call close, otherwise changes may not be written!
getDrive(path)
Source
Returns the name of the mount that the specified path is located on.

Parameters
path string The path to get the drive of.
Returns
string The name of the drive that the file is on; e.g. hdd for local files, or rom for ROM files.
Throws
If the path doesn't exist.

Usage
Print the drives of a couple of mounts:

Run ᐅprint("/: " .. fs.getDrive("/"))
print("/rom/: " .. fs.getDrive("rom"))
getFreeSpace(path)
Source
Returns the amount of free space available on the drive the path is located on.

Parameters
path string The path to check the free space for.
Returns
number | "unlimited" The amount of free space available, in bytes, or "unlimited".
Throws
If the path doesn't exist.

See also
getCapacity To get the capacity of this drive.
Changes
New in version 1.4
find(path)
Source
Searches for files matching a string with wildcards.

This string is formatted like a normal path string, but can include any number of wildcards (*) to look for files matching anything. For example, rom/*/command* will look for any path starting with command inside any subdirectory of /rom.

Parameters
path string The wildcard-qualified path to search for.
Returns
{ string... } A list of paths that match the search string.
Throws
If the path doesn't exist.

Changes
New in version 1.6
getCapacity(path)
Source
Returns the capacity of the drive the path is located on.

Parameters
path string The path of the drive to get.
Returns
number | nil This drive's capacity. This will be nil for "read-only" drives, such as the ROM or treasure disks.
Throws
If the capacity cannot be determined.

See also
getFreeSpace To get the free space available on this drive.
Changes
New in version 1.87.0
attributes(path)
Source
Get attributes about a specific file or folder.

The returned attributes table contains information about the size of the file, whether it is a directory, when it was created and last modified, and whether it is read only.

The creation and modification times are given as the number of milliseconds since the UNIX epoch. This may be given to os.date in order to convert it to more usable form.

Parameters
path string The path to get attributes for.
Returns
{ size = number, isDir = boolean, isReadOnly = boolean, created = number, modified = number } The resulting attributes.
Throws
If the path does not exist.

See also
getSize If you only care about the file's size.
isDir If you only care whether a path is a directory or not.
Changes
New in version 1.87.0
Changed in version 1.91.0: Renamed modification field to modified.
Changed in version 1.95.2: Added isReadOnly to attributes.
Types
 ReadHandle
A file handle opened with fs.open with the "r" mode.

ReadHandle.readLine([withTrailing])
Source
Read a line from the file.

Parameters
withTrailing? boolean Whether to include the newline characters with the returned string. Defaults to false.
Returns
string | nil The read line or nil if at the end of the file.
Throws
If the file has been closed.

Changes
Changed in version 1.81.0: Added option to return trailing newline.
ReadHandle.readAll()
Source
Read the remainder of the file.

Returns
nil | string The remaining contents of the file, or nil if we are at the end.
Throws
If the file has been closed.

ReadHandle.read([count])
Source
Read a number of characters from this file.

Parameters
count? number The number of characters to read, defaulting to 1.
Returns
string | nil The read characters, or nil if at the of the file.
Throws
When trying to read a negative number of characters.

If the file has been closed.

Changes
New in version 1.80pr1.4
ReadHandle.close()
Source
Close this file, freeing any resources it uses.

Once a file is closed it may no longer be read or written to.

Throws
If the file has already been closed.

 BinaryReadHandle
A file handle opened with fs.open with the "rb" mode.

BinaryReadHandle.read([count])
Source
Read a number of bytes from this file.

Parameters
count? number The number of bytes to read. When absent, a single byte will be read as a number. This may be 0 to determine we are at the end of the file.
Returns
nil If we are at the end of the file.
Or
number The value of the byte read. This is returned when the count is absent.
Or
string The bytes read as a string. This is returned when the count is given.
Throws
When trying to read a negative number of bytes.

If the file has been closed.

Changes
Changed in version 1.80pr1: Now accepts an integer argument to read multiple bytes, returning a string instead of a number.
BinaryReadHandle.readAll()
Source
Read the remainder of the file.

Returns
string | nil The remaining contents of the file, or nil if we are at the end.
Throws
If the file has been closed.

Changes
New in version 1.80pr1
BinaryReadHandle.readLine([withTrailing])
Source
Read a line from the file.

Parameters
withTrailing? boolean Whether to include the newline characters with the returned string. Defaults to false.
Returns
string | nil The read line or nil if at the end of the file.
Throws
If the file has been closed.

Changes
New in version 1.80pr1.9
Changed in version 1.81.0: \r is now stripped.
BinaryReadHandle.close()
Source
Close this file, freeing any resources it uses.

Once a file is closed it may no longer be read or written to.

Throws
If the file has already been closed.

BinaryReadHandle.seek([whence [, offset]])
Source
Seek to a new position within the file, changing where bytes are written to. The new position is an offset given by offset, relative to a start position determined by whence:

"set": offset is relative to the beginning of the file.
"cur": Relative to the current position. This is the default.
"end": Relative to the end of the file.
In case of success, seek returns the new file position from the beginning of the file.

Parameters
whence? string Where the offset is relative to.
offset? number The offset to seek to.
Returns
number The new position.
Or
nil If seeking failed.
string The reason seeking failed.
Throws
If the file has been closed.

Changes
New in version 1.80pr1.9
 WriteHandle
A file handle opened by fs.open using the "w" or "a" modes.

WriteHandle.write(value)
Source
Write a string of characters to the file.

Parameters
value The value to write to the file.
Throws
If the file has been closed.

WriteHandle.writeLine(value)
Source
Write a string of characters to the file, follwing them with a new line character.

Parameters
value The value to write to the file.
Throws
If the file has been closed.

WriteHandle.flush()
Source
Save the current file without closing it.

Throws
If the file has been closed.

WriteHandle.close()
Source
Close this file, freeing any resources it uses.

Once a file is closed it may no longer be read or written to.

Throws
If the file has already been closed.

 BinaryWriteHandle
A file handle opened by fs.open using the "wb" or "ab" modes.

BinaryWriteHandle.write(...)
Source
Write a string or byte to the file.

Parameters
The number byte to write.
Or
The string string to write.
Throws
If the file has been closed.

Changes
Changed in version 1.80pr1: Now accepts a string to write multiple bytes.
BinaryWriteHandle.flush()
Source
Save the current file without closing it.

Throws
If the file has been closed.

BinaryWriteHandle.close()
Source
Close this file, freeing any resources it uses.

Once a file is closed it may no longer be read or written to.

Throws
If the file has already been closed.

BinaryWriteHandle.seek([whence [, offset]])
Source
Seek to a new position within the file, changing where bytes are written to. The new position is an offset given by offset, relative to a start position determined by whence:

"set": offset is relative to the beginning of the file.
"cur": Relative to the current position. This is the default.
"end": Relative to the end of the file.
In case of success, seek returns the new file position from the beginning of the file.

Parameters
whence? string Where the offset is relative to.
offset? number The offset to seek to.
Returns
number The new position.
Or
nil If seeking failed.
string The reason seeking failed.
Throws
If the file has been closed.

Changes
New in version 1.80pr1.9
Last updated on 2022-07-16